PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

*title*: *one line description*

>Title can be a one or two words to describe the subsystem or the aspect
 this PR applies to. Title and description must be lower case. For example:
* ci: update build image to 44d539cb
* docs: fix indent, buffer: add copyOut() method
* router:add x-envoy-overloaded header
* tls: add support for specifying TLS session ticket keys

*Description*:
>What does this PR do? What was the behavior before the PR?
What is the behavior with the PR? If fixing a bug, please describe what
the original issue is and how the change resolves it. How does this
feature get enabled? By default, config change, etc...

*Risk Level*: Low | Medium | High
>Low: Small bug fix or small optional feature.

>Medium: New features that are not enabled(for example: new filter). Small-medium
features added to existing components(for example: modification to an existing
filter).

>High: Complicated changes such as flow control, rewrites of critical
components, etc.

>Note: The above is only a rough guide for choosing a level,
please ask if you have any concerns about the risk of the PR.

*Testing*:
>Explanation of what testing was done, for example: unit test,
integration, manual testing, etc.

>Note: It isn’t expected to do all
forms of testing, please use your best judgement or ask for guidance
if you are unsure. A good rule of thumb is the riskier the change, the
more comprehensive the testing should be.

*Docs Changes*:
>Link to [Data Plane PR](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api/pulls)]
if your PR involves documentation changes. Please write in N/A if there were no
documentation changes.

*Release Notes*:
>If this change is user impacting you **must** add a release note to
[RAW_RELEASE_NOTES.md](RAW_RELEASE_NOTES.md). Thank you! Please write in N/A if
there are no release notes.

[Optional Fixes #Issue]

[Optional *API Changes*:]
>Link to [Data Plane PR](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api/pulls)]

[Optional *Deprecated*:]
>Description of what is deprecated.

Commit message:

release notes: change procedure to have contributors add RST release … (#2839)
It's too much work for the releaser to bring all the raw release notes over.
Experiment failed. I am deleting this now to avoid racing with pending 1.6.0
changes. I will move the ones over that I am deleting as part of this change.

Signed-off-by: Matt Klein <mklein@lyft.com>

PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

*title*: *one line description*

>Title can be a one or two words to describe the subsystem or the aspect
 this PR applies to. Title and description must be lower case. For example:
* ci: update build image to 44d539cb
* docs: fix indent, buffer: add copyOut() method
* router:add x-envoy-overloaded header
* tls: add support for specifying TLS session ticket keys

*Description*:
>What does this PR do? What was the behavior before the PR?
What is the behavior with the PR? If fixing a bug, please describe what
the original issue is and how the change resolves it. How does this
feature get enabled? By default, config change, etc...

*Risk Level*: Low | Medium | High
>Low: Small bug fix or small optional feature.

>Medium: New features that are not enabled(for example: new filter). Small-medium
features added to existing components(for example: modification to an existing
filter).

>High: Complicated changes such as flow control, rewrites of critical
components, etc.

>Note: The above is only a rough guide for choosing a level,
please ask if you have any concerns about the risk of the PR.

*Testing*:
>Explanation of what testing was done, for example: unit test,
integration, manual testing, etc.

>Note: It isn’t expected to do all
forms of testing, please use your best judgement or ask for guidance
if you are unsure. A good rule of thumb is the riskier the change, the
more comprehensive the testing should be.

*Docs Changes*:
>Link to [Data Plane PR](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api/pulls)]
if your PR involves documentation changes. Please write in N/A if there were no
documentation changes.

*Release Notes*:
>If this change is user impacting you **must** add a release note via a discrete PR to
[version_history.rst](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api/blob/master/docs/root/intro/version_history.rst).
Please include any relevant links. Each release note should be prefixed with the relevant subsystem
in alphabetical order (see existing examples as a guide) and include links to relevant parts of
the documentation. Often times, this PR can be done concurrently with the main documentation PR
for the feature. Thank you! Please write in N/A if there are no release notes.

[Optional Fixes #Issue]

[Optional *API Changes*:]
>Link to [Data Plane PR](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api/pulls)]

[Optional *Deprecated*:]
>Description of what is deprecated.
