README.md, before:

![Envoy Logo](https://github.com/envoyproxy/artwork/blob/master/PNG/Envoy_Logo_Final_PANTONE.png)

[C++ L7 proxy and communication bus](https://www.envoyproxy.io/)

Envoy is hosted by the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://cncf.io) (CNCF). If you are a company that wants to help shape the evolution of technologies that are container-packaged, dynamically-scheduled and microservices-oriented, consider joining the CNCF. For details about who's involved and how Envoy plays a role, read the CNCF [announcement](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2017/09/13/cncf-hosts-envoy/).

[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1266/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1266)
[![Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/10180/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/envoy-proxy)

## Documentation

* [Official documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/)
* [FAQ](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/faq/overview)
* [Unofficial Chinese documentation](https://github.com/lixiangyun/envoyproxy_doc_ZH_CN)
* Watch [a video overview of Envoy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RVZX4CwKhGE)
([transcript](https://www.microservices.com/talks/lyfts-envoy-monolith-service-mesh-matt-klein/))
to find out more about the origin story and design philosophy of Envoy
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/envoy-threading-model-a8d44b922310) about the threading model
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/envoy-hot-restart-1d16b14555b5) about hot restart
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/envoy-stats-b65c7f363342) about stats architecture
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/the-universal-data-plane-api-d15cec7a) about universal data plane API
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/lyfts-envoy-dashboards-5c91738816b1) on Lyft's Envoy dashboards

## Related

* [data-plane-api](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api): v2 API definitions.
* [envoy-perf](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy-perf): Performance testing framework.
* [envoy-filter-example](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy-filter-example): Example of how to add new filters
  and link to the main repository.

## Contact

* [envoy-announce](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-announce): Low frequency mailing
  list where we will email announcements only.
* [envoy-users](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-users): General user discussion.
* [envoy-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-dev): Envoy developer discussion (APIs,
  feature design, etc.).
* [envoy-maintainers](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-maintainers): Use this list
  to reach all core Envoy maintainers.
* [Twitter](https://twitter.com/EnvoyProxy/): Follow along on Twitter!
* [Slack](https://envoyproxy.slack.com/): Slack, to get invited go [here](http://envoyslack.cncf.io).
  We have the IRC/XMPP gateways enabled if you prefer either of those. Once an account is created,
  connection instructions for IRC/XMPP can be found [here](https://envoyproxy.slack.com/account/gateways).
  * NOTE: Response to user questions is best effort on Slack. For a "guaranteed" response please email
    envoy-users@ per the guidance in the following linked thread.

Please see [this](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/envoy-announce/l9zjYsnS3TY) email thread
for information on email list usage.

## Contributing

Contributing to Envoy is fun and modern C++ is a lot less scary than you might think if you don't
have prior experience. To get started:

* [Contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Beginner issues](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeginner)
* [Build/test quick start using docker](ci#building-and-running-tests-as-a-developer)
* [Developer guide](DEVELOPER.md)
* Consider installing the Envoy [development support toolchain](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/support/README.md), which helps automate parts of the development process, particularly those involving code review.
* Please make sure that you let us know if you are working on an issue so we don't duplicate work!

## Community Meeting

The Envoy team meets every other Tuesday at 9am PT. The public Google calendar is here: https://goo.gl/PkDijT

Meeting minutes are here: https://goo.gl/5Cergb

## Reporting security vulnerabilities

If you've found a vulnerability or a potential vulnerability in Envoy please let us know at
[envoy-security](mailto:envoy-security@googlegroups.com). We'll send a confirmation
email to acknowledge your report, and we'll send an additional email when we've identified the issue
positively or negatively.

For further details please see our complete [security release process](SECURITY_RELEASE_PROCESS.md).

Commit message:

Add third party security audit (#2799)
Signed-off-by: Chris Aniszczyk <caniszczyk@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

![Envoy Logo](https://github.com/envoyproxy/artwork/blob/master/PNG/Envoy_Logo_Final_PANTONE.png)

[C++ L7 proxy and communication bus](https://www.envoyproxy.io/)

Envoy is hosted by the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://cncf.io) (CNCF). If you are a company that wants to help shape the evolution of technologies that are container-packaged, dynamically-scheduled and microservices-oriented, consider joining the CNCF. For details about who's involved and how Envoy plays a role, read the CNCF [announcement](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2017/09/13/cncf-hosts-envoy/).

[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1266/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/1266)
[![Coverity](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/10180/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/envoy-proxy)

## Documentation

* [Official documentation](https://www.envoyproxy.io/)
* [FAQ](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/faq/overview)
* [Unofficial Chinese documentation](https://github.com/lixiangyun/envoyproxy_doc_ZH_CN)
* Watch [a video overview of Envoy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RVZX4CwKhGE)
([transcript](https://www.microservices.com/talks/lyfts-envoy-monolith-service-mesh-matt-klein/))
to find out more about the origin story and design philosophy of Envoy
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/envoy-threading-model-a8d44b922310) about the threading model
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/envoy-hot-restart-1d16b14555b5) about hot restart
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/envoy-stats-b65c7f363342) about stats architecture
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/the-universal-data-plane-api-d15cec7a) about universal data plane API
* [Blog](https://medium.com/@mattklein123/lyfts-envoy-dashboards-5c91738816b1) on Lyft's Envoy dashboards

## Related

* [data-plane-api](https://github.com/envoyproxy/data-plane-api): v2 API definitions.
* [envoy-perf](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy-perf): Performance testing framework.
* [envoy-filter-example](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy-filter-example): Example of how to add new filters
  and link to the main repository.

## Contact

* [envoy-announce](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-announce): Low frequency mailing
  list where we will email announcements only.
* [envoy-users](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-users): General user discussion.
* [envoy-dev](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-dev): Envoy developer discussion (APIs,
  feature design, etc.).
* [envoy-maintainers](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/envoy-maintainers): Use this list
  to reach all core Envoy maintainers.
* [Twitter](https://twitter.com/EnvoyProxy/): Follow along on Twitter!
* [Slack](https://envoyproxy.slack.com/): Slack, to get invited go [here](http://envoyslack.cncf.io).
  We have the IRC/XMPP gateways enabled if you prefer either of those. Once an account is created,
  connection instructions for IRC/XMPP can be found [here](https://envoyproxy.slack.com/account/gateways).
  * NOTE: Response to user questions is best effort on Slack. For a "guaranteed" response please email
    envoy-users@ per the guidance in the following linked thread.

Please see [this](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/envoy-announce/l9zjYsnS3TY) email thread
for information on email list usage.

## Contributing

Contributing to Envoy is fun and modern C++ is a lot less scary than you might think if you don't
have prior experience. To get started:

* [Contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Beginner issues](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Abeginner)
* [Build/test quick start using docker](ci#building-and-running-tests-as-a-developer)
* [Developer guide](DEVELOPER.md)
* Consider installing the Envoy [development support toolchain](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/master/support/README.md), which helps automate parts of the development process, particularly those involving code review.
* Please make sure that you let us know if you are working on an issue so we don't duplicate work!

## Community Meeting

The Envoy team meets every other Tuesday at 9am PT. The public Google calendar is here: https://goo.gl/PkDijT

Meeting minutes are here: https://goo.gl/5Cergb

## Security

### Security Audit

A third party security audit was performed by Cure53, you can see the full report [here](docs/SECURITY_AUDIT.pdf).

### Reporting security vulnerabilities

If you've found a vulnerability or a potential vulnerability in Envoy please let us know at
[envoy-security](mailto:envoy-security@googlegroups.com). We'll send a confirmation
email to acknowledge your report, and we'll send an additional email when we've identified the issue
positively or negatively.

For further details please see our complete [security release process](SECURITY_RELEASE_PROCESS.md).
