STYLE.md, before:

# C++ coding style

* The Envoy source code is formatted using clang-format. Thus all white spaces, etc.
  issues are taken care of automatically. The Travis tests will automatically check
  the code format and fail. There are make targets that can both check the format
  (check_format) as well as fix the code format for you (fix_format).
* Beyond code formatting, for the most part Envoy uses the
  [Google C++ style guidelines](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).
  The following section covers the major areas where we deviate from the Google
  guidelines.

# Repository file layout

* Please see [REPO_LAYOUT.md](REPO_LAYOUT.md).

# Deviations from Google C++ style guidelines

* Exceptions are allowed and encouraged where appropriate. When using exceptions, do not add
  additional error handing that cannot possibly happen in the case an exception is thrown.
* References are always preferred over pointers when the reference cannot be null. This
  includes both const and non-const references.
* Function names should all use camel case starting with a lower case letter (e.g., `doFoo()`).
* Struct/Class member variables have a `_` postfix (e.g., `int foo_;`).
* Enum values using PascalCase (e.g., `RoundRobin`).
* 100 columns is the line limit.
* Use your GitHub name in TODO comments, e.g. `TODO(foobar): blah`.
* Smart pointers are type aliased:
  * `typedef std::unique_ptr<Foo> FooPtr;`
  * `typedef std::shared_ptr<Bar> BarSharedPtr;`
  * `typedef std::shared_ptr<const Blah> BlahConstSharedPtr;`
  * Regular pointers (e.g. `int* foo`) should not be type aliased.
* If move semantics are intended, prefer specifying function arguments with `&&`.
  E.g., `void onHeaders(Http::HeaderMapPtr&& headers, ...)`. The rationale for this is that it
  forces the caller to specify `std::move(...)` or pass a temporary and makes the intention at
  the callsite clear. Otherwise, it's difficult to tell if a const reference is actually being
  passed to the called function. This is true even for `std::unique_ptr`.
* Prefer `unique_ptr` over `shared_ptr` wherever possible. `unique_ptr` makes ownership in
  production code easier to reason about. Note that this creates some test oddities where
  production code requires a `unique_ptr` but the test must still have access to the memory
  the production code is using (mock or otherwise). In these cases it is acceptable to allocate
  raw memory in a test and return it to the production code with the expectation that the
  production code will hold it in a `unique_ptr` and free it. Envoy uses the factory pattern
  quite a bit for these cases. (Search the code for "factory").
* The Google C++ style guide points out that [non-PoD static and global variables are forbidden](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Static_and_Global_Variables).
  This _includes_ types such as `std::string`. We encourage the use of the
  advice in the [C++ FAQ on the static initialization
  fiasco](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/ctors#static-init-order-on-first-use) for
  how to best handle this.
* The Google C++ style guide points out that [constant vars should be named `kConstantVar`](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Constant_Names).
  In the Envoy codebase we use `ConstantVar` or `CONSTANT_VAR`. If you pick `CONSTANT_VAR`,
  please be certain the name is globally significant to avoid potential conflicts with #defines,
  which are not namespace-scoped, and may appear in externally controlled header files.
* API-level comments should follow normal Doxygen conventions. Use `@param` to describe
  parameters and `@return <return-type>` for return values. Internal comments for
  methods and member variables may be regular C++ `//` comments or Doxygen at
  developer discretion. Where possible, methods should have meaningful
  documentation on expected input and state preconditions.
* Header guards should use `#pragma once`.
* All code should be inside a top-level Envoy namespace. There are some
  exceptions such as `main()` functions. When code cannot be placed inside the
  Envoy namespace there should be a comment of the form `// NOLINT(namespace-envoy)` at
  the top of the file.
* If a method that must be defined outside the `test` directory is intended to be called only
  from test code then it should have a name that ends in `ForTest()` such as `aMethodForTest()`.
  In most cases tests can and should be structured so this is not necessary.
* Tests default to StrictMock so will fail if hitting unexpected warnings. Feel free to use
  NiceMock for mocks whose behavior is not the focus of a test.
* [Thread
  annotations](https://github.com/abseil/abseil-cpp/blob/master/absl/base/thread_annotations.h),
  such as `GUARDED_BY`, should be used for shared state guarded by
  locks/mutexes.
* Functions intended to be local to a cc file should be declared in an anonymonus namespace,
  rather than using the 'static' keyword. Note that the
  [Google C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Unnamed_Namespaces_and_Static_Variables)
   allows either, but in Envoy we prefer annonymous namespaces.
* Braces are required for all control statements include single line if, while, etc. statements.

# Error handling

A few general notes on our error handling philosophy:

* All error code returns should be checked.
* At a very high level, our philosophy is that errors that are *likely* to happen should be
  gracefully handled. Examples of likely errors include any type of network error, disk IO error,
  bad data returned by an API call, bad data read from runtime files, etc. Errors that are
  *unlikely* to happen should lead to process death, under the assumption that the additional burden
  of defensive coding and testing is not an effective use of time for an error that should not happen
  given proper system setup. Examples of these types of errors include not being able to open the shared
  memory region, an invalid initial JSON config read from disk, system calls that should not fail
  assuming correct parameters (which should be validated via tests), etc. Examples of system calls
  that should not fail when passed valid parameters include most usages of `setsockopt()`,
  `getsockopt()`, the kernel returning a valid `sockaddr` after a successful call to `accept()`,
  `pthread_create()`, `pthread_join()`, etc.
* OOM events (both memory and FDs) are considered fatal crashing errors. An OOM error should never
  silently be ignored and should crash the process either via the C++ allocation error exception, an
  explicit `RELEASE_ASSERT` following a third party library call, or an obvious crash on a subsequent
  line via null pointer dereference. This rule is again based on the philosophy that the engineering
  costs of properly handling these cases are not worth it. Time is better spent designing proper system
  controls that shed load if resource usage becomes too high, etc.
* The "less is more" error handling philosophy described in the previous two points is primarily
  based on the fact that restarts are designed to be fast, reliable and cheap.
* Although we strongly recommend that any type of startup error leads to a fatal error, since this
  is almost always a result of faulty configuration which should be caught during a canary process,
  there may be cases in which we want some classes of startup errors to be non-fatal. For example,
  if a misconfigured option is not necessary for server operation. Although this is discouraged, we
  will discuss these on a case by case basis during code review (an example of this
  is the `--admin-address-path` option). **If degraded mode error handling is implemented, we require
  that there is complete test coverage for the degraded case.** Additionally, the user should be
  aware of the degraded state minimally via an error log of level warn or greater and via the
  increment of a stat.
* If you do need to log a non-fatal warning or error, you can unit-test it with EXPECT_LOG_CONTAINS
  or EXPECT_NO_LOGS from [logging.h](test/test_common/logging.h). It's generally bad practice to
  test by depending on log messages unless the actual behavior being validated is logging.
  It's preferable to export statistics to enable consumption by external monitoring for any
  behavior that should be externally consumed or to introduce appropriate internal interfaces
  such as mocks for internal behavior.
* The error handling philosophy described herein is based on the assumption that Envoy is deployed
  using industry best practices (primarily canary). Major and obvious errors should always be
  caught in canary. If a low rate error leads to periodic crash cycling when deployed to
  production, the error rate should allow for rollback without large customer impact.
* Tip: If the thought of adding the extra test coverage, logging, and stats to handle an error and
  continue seems ridiculous because *"this should never happen"*, it's a very good indication that
  the appropriate behavior is to terminate the process and not handle the error. When in doubt,
  please discuss.
* Per above it's acceptable to turn failures into crash semantics
  via `RELEASE_ASSERT(condition)` or `PANIC(message)` if there is no other sensible behavior, e.g.
  in OOM (memory/FD) scenarios. Only `RELEASE_ASSERT(condition)` should be used to validate
  conditions that might be imposed by the external environment. `ASSERT(condition)` should be used
  to document (and check in debug-only builds) program invariants. Use `ASSERT` liberally, but do
  not use it for things that will crash in an obvious way in a subsequent line. E.g., do not do
  `ASSERT(foo != nullptr); foo->doSomething();`. Note that there is a gray line between external
  environment failures and program invariant violations. For example, memory corruption due to a
  security issue (a bug, deliberate buffer overflow etc.) might manifest as a violation of program
  invariants or as a detectable condition in the external environment (e.g. some library returning a
  highly unexpected error code or buffer contents). Unfortunately no rule can cleanly cover when to
  use `RELEASE_ASSERT` vs. `ASSERT`. In general we view `ASSERT` as the common case and
  `RELEASE_ASSERT` as the uncommon case, but experience and judgment may dictate a particular approach
  depending on the situation.

# Hermetic and deterministic tests

Tests should be hermetic, i.e. have all dependencies explicitly captured and not depend on the local
environment. In general, there should be no non-local network access. In addition:

* Port numbers should not be hardcoded. Tests should bind to port zero and then discover the bound
  port when needed. This avoids flakes due to conflicting ports and allows tests to be executed
  concurrently by Bazel. See
  [`test/integration/integration_test.h`](test/integration/integration_test.h) and
  [`test/common/network/listener_impl_test.cc`](test/common/network/listener_impl_test.cc)
  for examples of tests that do this.

* Paths should be constructed using:
  * The methods in [`TestEnvironment`](test/test_common/environment.h) for C++ tests.
  * With `${TEST_TMPDIR}` (for writable temporary space) or `${TEST_RUNDIR}` for read-only access to
    test inputs in shell tests.
  * With `{{ test_tmpdir }}`, `{{ test_rundir }}` and `{{ test_udsdir }}` respectively for JSON templates.
    `{{ test_udsdir }}` is provided for pathname based Unix Domain Sockets, which must fit within a
    108 character limit on Linux, a property that might not hold for `{{ test_tmpdir }}`.

Tests should be deterministic. They should not rely on randomness or details
such as the current time. Instead, mocks such as
[`MockRandomGenerator`](test/mocks/runtime/mocks.h) and
[`Mock*TimeSource`](test/mocks/common.h) should be used.

# Google style guides for other languages

* [Python](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html)
* [Bash](https://google.github.io/styleguide/shell.xml)
* [Bazel](https://bazel.build/versions/master/docs/skylark/build-style.html)

Commit message:

style: formalize exception policy on the data path. (#4793)
Signed-off-by: Harvey Tuch <htuch@google.com>

STYLE.md, after:

# C++ coding style

* The Envoy source code is formatted using clang-format. Thus all white spaces, etc.
  issues are taken care of automatically. The Travis tests will automatically check
  the code format and fail. There are make targets that can both check the format
  (check_format) as well as fix the code format for you (fix_format).
* Beyond code formatting, for the most part Envoy uses the
  [Google C++ style guidelines](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).
  The following section covers the major areas where we deviate from the Google
  guidelines.

# Repository file layout

* Please see [REPO_LAYOUT.md](REPO_LAYOUT.md).

# Deviations from Google C++ style guidelines

* Exceptions are allowed and encouraged where appropriate. When using exceptions, do not add
  additional error handing that cannot possibly happen in the case an exception is thrown.
* Do use exceptions for:
  - Configuration ingestion error handling. Invalid configurations (dynamic and
    static) should throw meaningful `EnvoyException`s, the configuration
    ingestion code will catch these.
  - Constructor failure.
  - Error handling in deep call stacks, where exceptions provide material
    improvements to code complexity and readability.
* Apply caution when using exceptions on the data path for general purpose error
  handling. Exceptions are not caught on the data path and they should not be
  used for simple error handling, e.g. with shallow call stacks, where explicit
  error handling provides a more readable and easier to reason about
  implementation.
* References are always preferred over pointers when the reference cannot be null. This
  includes both const and non-const references.
* Function names should all use camel case starting with a lower case letter (e.g., `doFoo()`).
* Struct/Class member variables have a `_` postfix (e.g., `int foo_;`).
* Enum values using PascalCase (e.g., `RoundRobin`).
* 100 columns is the line limit.
* Use your GitHub name in TODO comments, e.g. `TODO(foobar): blah`.
* Smart pointers are type aliased:
  * `typedef std::unique_ptr<Foo> FooPtr;`
  * `typedef std::shared_ptr<Bar> BarSharedPtr;`
  * `typedef std::shared_ptr<const Blah> BlahConstSharedPtr;`
  * Regular pointers (e.g. `int* foo`) should not be type aliased.
* If move semantics are intended, prefer specifying function arguments with `&&`.
  E.g., `void onHeaders(Http::HeaderMapPtr&& headers, ...)`. The rationale for this is that it
  forces the caller to specify `std::move(...)` or pass a temporary and makes the intention at
  the callsite clear. Otherwise, it's difficult to tell if a const reference is actually being
  passed to the called function. This is true even for `std::unique_ptr`.
* Prefer `unique_ptr` over `shared_ptr` wherever possible. `unique_ptr` makes ownership in
  production code easier to reason about. Note that this creates some test oddities where
  production code requires a `unique_ptr` but the test must still have access to the memory
  the production code is using (mock or otherwise). In these cases it is acceptable to allocate
  raw memory in a test and return it to the production code with the expectation that the
  production code will hold it in a `unique_ptr` and free it. Envoy uses the factory pattern
  quite a bit for these cases. (Search the code for "factory").
* The Google C++ style guide points out that [non-PoD static and global variables are forbidden](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Static_and_Global_Variables).
  This _includes_ types such as `std::string`. We encourage the use of the
  advice in the [C++ FAQ on the static initialization
  fiasco](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/ctors#static-init-order-on-first-use) for
  how to best handle this.
* The Google C++ style guide points out that [constant vars should be named `kConstantVar`](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Constant_Names).
  In the Envoy codebase we use `ConstantVar` or `CONSTANT_VAR`. If you pick `CONSTANT_VAR`,
  please be certain the name is globally significant to avoid potential conflicts with #defines,
  which are not namespace-scoped, and may appear in externally controlled header files.
* API-level comments should follow normal Doxygen conventions. Use `@param` to describe
  parameters and `@return <return-type>` for return values. Internal comments for
  methods and member variables may be regular C++ `//` comments or Doxygen at
  developer discretion. Where possible, methods should have meaningful
  documentation on expected input and state preconditions.
* Header guards should use `#pragma once`.
* All code should be inside a top-level Envoy namespace. There are some
  exceptions such as `main()` functions. When code cannot be placed inside the
  Envoy namespace there should be a comment of the form `// NOLINT(namespace-envoy)` at
  the top of the file.
* If a method that must be defined outside the `test` directory is intended to be called only
  from test code then it should have a name that ends in `ForTest()` such as `aMethodForTest()`.
  In most cases tests can and should be structured so this is not necessary.
* Tests default to StrictMock so will fail if hitting unexpected warnings. Feel free to use
  NiceMock for mocks whose behavior is not the focus of a test.
* [Thread
  annotations](https://github.com/abseil/abseil-cpp/blob/master/absl/base/thread_annotations.h),
  such as `GUARDED_BY`, should be used for shared state guarded by
  locks/mutexes.
* Functions intended to be local to a cc file should be declared in an anonymonus namespace,
  rather than using the 'static' keyword. Note that the
  [Google C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Unnamed_Namespaces_and_Static_Variables)
   allows either, but in Envoy we prefer annonymous namespaces.
* Braces are required for all control statements include single line if, while, etc. statements.

# Error handling

A few general notes on our error handling philosophy:

* All error code returns should be checked.
* At a very high level, our philosophy is that errors that are *likely* to happen should be
  gracefully handled. Examples of likely errors include any type of network error, disk IO error,
  bad data returned by an API call, bad data read from runtime files, etc. Errors that are
  *unlikely* to happen should lead to process death, under the assumption that the additional burden
  of defensive coding and testing is not an effective use of time for an error that should not happen
  given proper system setup. Examples of these types of errors include not being able to open the shared
  memory region, an invalid initial JSON config read from disk, system calls that should not fail
  assuming correct parameters (which should be validated via tests), etc. Examples of system calls
  that should not fail when passed valid parameters include most usages of `setsockopt()`,
  `getsockopt()`, the kernel returning a valid `sockaddr` after a successful call to `accept()`,
  `pthread_create()`, `pthread_join()`, etc.
* OOM events (both memory and FDs) are considered fatal crashing errors. An OOM error should never
  silently be ignored and should crash the process either via the C++ allocation error exception, an
  explicit `RELEASE_ASSERT` following a third party library call, or an obvious crash on a subsequent
  line via null pointer dereference. This rule is again based on the philosophy that the engineering
  costs of properly handling these cases are not worth it. Time is better spent designing proper system
  controls that shed load if resource usage becomes too high, etc.
* The "less is more" error handling philosophy described in the previous two points is primarily
  based on the fact that restarts are designed to be fast, reliable and cheap.
* Although we strongly recommend that any type of startup error leads to a fatal error, since this
  is almost always a result of faulty configuration which should be caught during a canary process,
  there may be cases in which we want some classes of startup errors to be non-fatal. For example,
  if a misconfigured option is not necessary for server operation. Although this is discouraged, we
  will discuss these on a case by case basis during code review (an example of this
  is the `--admin-address-path` option). **If degraded mode error handling is implemented, we require
  that there is complete test coverage for the degraded case.** Additionally, the user should be
  aware of the degraded state minimally via an error log of level warn or greater and via the
  increment of a stat.
* If you do need to log a non-fatal warning or error, you can unit-test it with EXPECT_LOG_CONTAINS
  or EXPECT_NO_LOGS from [logging.h](test/test_common/logging.h). It's generally bad practice to
  test by depending on log messages unless the actual behavior being validated is logging.
  It's preferable to export statistics to enable consumption by external monitoring for any
  behavior that should be externally consumed or to introduce appropriate internal interfaces
  such as mocks for internal behavior.
* The error handling philosophy described herein is based on the assumption that Envoy is deployed
  using industry best practices (primarily canary). Major and obvious errors should always be
  caught in canary. If a low rate error leads to periodic crash cycling when deployed to
  production, the error rate should allow for rollback without large customer impact.
* Tip: If the thought of adding the extra test coverage, logging, and stats to handle an error and
  continue seems ridiculous because *"this should never happen"*, it's a very good indication that
  the appropriate behavior is to terminate the process and not handle the error. When in doubt,
  please discuss.
* Per above it's acceptable to turn failures into crash semantics
  via `RELEASE_ASSERT(condition)` or `PANIC(message)` if there is no other sensible behavior, e.g.
  in OOM (memory/FD) scenarios. Only `RELEASE_ASSERT(condition)` should be used to validate
  conditions that might be imposed by the external environment. `ASSERT(condition)` should be used
  to document (and check in debug-only builds) program invariants. Use `ASSERT` liberally, but do
  not use it for things that will crash in an obvious way in a subsequent line. E.g., do not do
  `ASSERT(foo != nullptr); foo->doSomething();`. Note that there is a gray line between external
  environment failures and program invariant violations. For example, memory corruption due to a
  security issue (a bug, deliberate buffer overflow etc.) might manifest as a violation of program
  invariants or as a detectable condition in the external environment (e.g. some library returning a
  highly unexpected error code or buffer contents). Unfortunately no rule can cleanly cover when to
  use `RELEASE_ASSERT` vs. `ASSERT`. In general we view `ASSERT` as the common case and
  `RELEASE_ASSERT` as the uncommon case, but experience and judgment may dictate a particular approach
  depending on the situation.

# Hermetic and deterministic tests

Tests should be hermetic, i.e. have all dependencies explicitly captured and not depend on the local
environment. In general, there should be no non-local network access. In addition:

* Port numbers should not be hardcoded. Tests should bind to port zero and then discover the bound
  port when needed. This avoids flakes due to conflicting ports and allows tests to be executed
  concurrently by Bazel. See
  [`test/integration/integration_test.h`](test/integration/integration_test.h) and
  [`test/common/network/listener_impl_test.cc`](test/common/network/listener_impl_test.cc)
  for examples of tests that do this.

* Paths should be constructed using:
  * The methods in [`TestEnvironment`](test/test_common/environment.h) for C++ tests.
  * With `${TEST_TMPDIR}` (for writable temporary space) or `${TEST_RUNDIR}` for read-only access to
    test inputs in shell tests.
  * With `{{ test_tmpdir }}`, `{{ test_rundir }}` and `{{ test_udsdir }}` respectively for JSON templates.
    `{{ test_udsdir }}` is provided for pathname based Unix Domain Sockets, which must fit within a
    108 character limit on Linux, a property that might not hold for `{{ test_tmpdir }}`.

Tests should be deterministic. They should not rely on randomness or details
such as the current time. Instead, mocks such as
[`MockRandomGenerator`](test/mocks/runtime/mocks.h) and
[`Mock*TimeSource`](test/mocks/common.h) should be used.

# Google style guides for other languages

* [Python](https://google.github.io/styleguide/pyguide.html)
* [Bash](https://google.github.io/styleguide/shell.xml)
* [Bazel](https://bazel.build/versions/master/docs/skylark/build-style.html)
