docs/root/configuration/network_filters/tcp_proxy_filter.rst, before:

.. _config_network_filters_tcp_proxy:

TCP proxy
=========

* TCP proxy :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_tcp_proxy>`
* :ref:`v1 API reference <config_network_filters_tcp_proxy_v1>`
* :ref:`v2 API reference <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy>`

.. _config_network_filters_tcp_proxy_stats:

Statistics
----------

The TCP proxy filter emits both its own downstream statistics as well as many of the :ref:`cluster
upstream statistics <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` where applicable. The downstream
statistics are rooted at *tcp.<stat_prefix>.* with the following statistics:

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total number of connections handled by the filter
  downstream_cx_no_route, Counter, Number of connections for which no matching route was found
  downstream_cx_tx_bytes_total, Counter, Total bytes written to the downstream connection
  downstream_cx_tx_bytes_buffered, Gauge, Total bytes currently buffered to the downstream connection
  downstream_flow_control_paused_reading_total, Counter, Total number of times flow control paused reading from downstream
  downstream_flow_control_resumed_reading_total, Counter, Total number of times flow control resumed reading from downstream

Commit message:

WebSocket: allow configuring idle timeout and reconnects. (#3277)
* WebSocket: allow configuring idle timeout and reconnects.

This also resolves a TODO in TcpProxy by always passing it a
configuration, even in the WebSocket case.

Signed-off-by: Greg Greenway <ggreenway@apple.com>

docs/root/configuration/network_filters/tcp_proxy_filter.rst, after:

.. _config_network_filters_tcp_proxy:

TCP proxy
=========

* TCP proxy :ref:`architecture overview <arch_overview_tcp_proxy>`
* :ref:`v1 API reference <config_network_filters_tcp_proxy_v1>`
* :ref:`v2 API reference <envoy_api_msg_config.filter.network.tcp_proxy.v2.TcpProxy>`

.. _config_network_filters_tcp_proxy_stats:

Statistics
----------

The TCP proxy filter emits both its own downstream statistics as well as many of the :ref:`cluster
upstream statistics <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` where applicable. The downstream
statistics are rooted at *tcp.<stat_prefix>.* with the following statistics:

.. csv-table::
  :header: Name, Type, Description
  :widths: 1, 1, 2

  downstream_cx_total, Counter, Total number of connections handled by the filter
  downstream_cx_no_route, Counter, Number of connections for which no matching route was found or the cluster for the route was not found
  downstream_cx_tx_bytes_total, Counter, Total bytes written to the downstream connection
  downstream_cx_tx_bytes_buffered, Gauge, Total bytes currently buffered to the downstream connection
  downstream_cx_rx_bytes_total, Counter, Total bytes read from the downstream connection
  downstream_cx_rx_bytes_buffered, Gauge, Total bytes currently buffered from the downstream connection
  downstream_flow_control_paused_reading_total, Counter, Total number of times flow control paused reading from downstream
  downstream_flow_control_resumed_reading_total, Counter, Total number of times flow control resumed reading from downstream
  idle_timeout, Counter, Total number of connections closed due to idle timeout
  upstream_flush_total, Counter, Total number of connections that continued to flush upstream data after the downstream connection was closed
  upstream_flush_active, Gauge, Total connections currently continuing to flush upstream data after the downstream connection was closed
