docs/root/intro/arch_overview/circuit_breaking.rst, before:

.. _arch_overview_circuit_break:

Circuit breaking
================

Circuit breaking is a critical component of distributed systems. It’s nearly always better to fail
quickly and apply back pressure downstream as soon as possible. One of the main benefits of an Envoy
mesh is that Envoy enforces circuit breaking limits at the network level as opposed to having to
configure and code each application independently. Envoy supports various types of fully distributed
(not coordinated) circuit breaking:

* **Cluster maximum connections**: The maximum number of connections that Envoy will establish to
  all hosts in an upstream cluster. In practice this is only applicable to HTTP/1.1 clusters since
  HTTP/2 uses a single connection to each host.
* **Cluster maximum pending requests**: The maximum number of requests that will be queued while
  waiting for a ready connection pool connection. In practice this is only applicable to HTTP/1.1
  clusters since HTTP/2 connection pools never queue requests. HTTP/2 requests are multiplexed
  immediately. If this circuit breaker overflows the :ref:`upstream_rq_pending_overflow
  <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` counter for the cluster will increment.
* **Cluster maximum requests**: The maximum number of requests that can be outstanding to all hosts
  in a cluster at any given time. In practice this is applicable to HTTP/2 clusters since HTTP/1.1
  clusters are governed by the maximum connections circuit breaker. If this circuit breaker
  overflows the :ref:`upstream_rq_pending_overflow <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` counter
  for the cluster will increment.
* **Cluster maximum active retries**: The maximum number of retries that can be outstanding to all
  hosts in a cluster at any given time. In general we recommend aggressively circuit breaking
  retries so that retries for sporadic failures are allowed but the overall retry volume cannot
  explode and cause large scale cascading failure. If this circuit breaker overflows the
  :ref:`upstream_rq_retry_overflow <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` counter for the cluster
  will increment.

Each circuit breaking limit is :ref:`configurable <config_cluster_manager_cluster_circuit_breakers>`
and tracked on a per upstream cluster and per priority basis. This allows different components of
the distributed system to be tuned independently and have different limits.

Note that circuit breaking will cause the :ref:`x-envoy-overloaded
<config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-overloaded_set>` header to be set by the router filter in the
case of HTTP requests.

Commit message:

circuit-breaker: expose live circuit breaker state (#4781)
This commit adds new cluster stats to expose the live circuit breaker
state.

Signed-off-by: Venil Noronha <veniln@vmware.com>

docs/root/intro/arch_overview/circuit_breaking.rst, after:

.. _arch_overview_circuit_break:

Circuit breaking
================

Circuit breaking is a critical component of distributed systems. It’s nearly always better to fail
quickly and apply back pressure downstream as soon as possible. One of the main benefits of an Envoy
mesh is that Envoy enforces circuit breaking limits at the network level as opposed to having to
configure and code each application independently. Envoy supports various types of fully distributed
(not coordinated) circuit breaking:

* **Cluster maximum connections**: The maximum number of connections that Envoy will establish to
  all hosts in an upstream cluster. In practice this is only applicable to HTTP/1.1 clusters since
  HTTP/2 uses a single connection to each host.
* **Cluster maximum pending requests**: The maximum number of requests that will be queued while
  waiting for a ready connection pool connection. In practice this is only applicable to HTTP/1.1
  clusters since HTTP/2 connection pools never queue requests. HTTP/2 requests are multiplexed
  immediately. If this circuit breaker overflows the :ref:`upstream_rq_pending_overflow
  <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` counter for the cluster will increment.
* **Cluster maximum requests**: The maximum number of requests that can be outstanding to all hosts
  in a cluster at any given time. In practice this is applicable to HTTP/2 clusters since HTTP/1.1
  clusters are governed by the maximum connections circuit breaker. If this circuit breaker
  overflows the :ref:`upstream_rq_pending_overflow <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` counter
  for the cluster will increment.
* **Cluster maximum active retries**: The maximum number of retries that can be outstanding to all
  hosts in a cluster at any given time. In general we recommend aggressively circuit breaking
  retries so that retries for sporadic failures are allowed but the overall retry volume cannot
  explode and cause large scale cascading failure. If this circuit breaker overflows the
  :ref:`upstream_rq_retry_overflow <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats>` counter for the cluster
  will increment.

Each circuit breaking limit is :ref:`configurable <config_cluster_manager_cluster_circuit_breakers>`
and tracked on a per upstream cluster and per priority basis. This allows different components of
the distributed system to be tuned independently and have different limits. The live state of these
circuit breakers can be observed via :ref:`statistics <config_cluster_manager_cluster_stats_circuit_breakers>`.

Note that circuit breaking will cause the :ref:`x-envoy-overloaded
<config_http_filters_router_x-envoy-overloaded_set>` header to be set by the router filter in the
case of HTTP requests.
